both China and Bitcoin have been huge
news recently as major volatility is
clearly present the Chinese Yuan has
found itself spiraling downwards we have
also seen Bitcoin fluctuate first
unobstructed upward then rapidly falling
right after what is important to note is
that many individuals have been using
Bitcoin as a means of escaping the
capital controls in in China and have
been partly responsible for the rise
which we have seen alternate currencies
and assets are in high demand you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you today we are going to have our
focus on bitcoin China and I also want
to talk about gold see Bitcoin is being
used as this Capital controls loophole
some individuals take to the black
market we've seen seen some of this
happening in Venezuela right now for
example here in China uh they are
definitely going ahead using Bitcoin to
some degree let's look at
this China's Financial Services
authorities required major Executives at
the Shanghai based Bitcoin trading
platform to rectify what they call
misbehavior in the trading of the
virtual currency and to raise awareness
of the risks
and has the value of Bitcoins
experienced wild fluctuations and I do
believe that this is true you know there
there are risks when you put your money
into anything even that's your own
currency that your your country produces
or your private Central Bank produces
you have to figure look there's always
going to be risk so you have to keep
your savings if you have any somewhere
whether that's in your uh base currency
let's call it or foreign currency
or maybe you want to put in assets or
anything else there's always
fluctuations because everything is
measured in something else it's all
relative when you look at this here the
value of each Bitcoin jumped more than
14% on Friday after hitting an all-time
high the currency's value fluctuated by
check this out more than 30% within the
past two weeks those are major jumps
right there I guess at this point I'll
mention this
what I've seen in in general to
generalize here is that when you have
something that is generally recognized
as a small asset class you can see a lot
of volatility occurring with that so for
example you know the stock market as a
whole when you look at trillions of
dollars it's harder to move that than
something like Bitcoin that at the same
time however though there are less total
players
so it sort of plays off against each
other that way a statement by The
People's Bank of China Shang High
released so said the changes in the
virtual currency were
abnormal and uh basically they have to
uh urge the platform to probe investors
behavior and to rectify misbehavior so
anyway I would just like to say that uh
what has been going on here China
probably doesn't like this and they are
trying to
engage in some sort of let's call this
uh protections for their own
currency look at this China's
institutional and individual investors
should take a rational approach to
investing in the virtual currency such
as Bitcoin the central bank said Bitcoin
prices had showed abnormal fluctuations
okay and we're basically getting into a
lot of the same thing they they refer to
it as self-inspection and everything
else here I just wanted to say
specifically that China China doesn't
want to have so much of the outflows
occurring if it happens slowly over time
it may balance itself out but if it
happens all in one big um gust of wind
then it's going to topple it over it
stressed that Bitcoin is not I know a
lot of you will not appreciate this one
is not the currency and cannot be
circulated as a real real sure currency
in the market what I would say about
Bitcoin is
that it's new there's no doubt and I
want don't want to give my opinion this
is not the video for that but when a
private Central Bank who issues garbage
Fiat paper currency and then says look
that other thing over there that's not a
real well I
mean what are we getting at here I mean
what what is real in in these currencies
when you think about
it is the private Central Bank fiat
currency more real than Bitcoin you know
if you look at just the two of
them you know I've got some difference
of opinion let's just
say Chinese volatility explodes Yuan
tumbles the most in one year after the
biggest 2day rally ever
we are seeing huge changes occurring
right now the sudden surge in two-way
volatility that has emerged a major
threat to the global market stability
Yuan fell as much as 1.1% to
6.86 of the
dollar now people would say and you see
the haters in the comments all the time
1.1% that's nothing but when you think
about it sure if B Bitcoin moved up 1%
perhaps it's not that much but you're
talking about the major foreign
exchanges 1% on a particular currency is
a lot of money being moved in or out
we're not talking about something small
here okay remember
that and what is uh the concern right
now is that if it moves past the mark of
seven that is uh similar to what I've
talked about at the da how you know once
it hits these marks then it could set
off algorithms um either sending it up
higher or lower depending how they're
all set I don't know how the algorithms
are set I just know that they would have
a particular number and feel it that it
would be very important uh the Yuan
being uh seven and the Dow Jones being
20,000 China reserves hover above $3
trillion on government support there is
more in this article here but
essentially uh what we are looking at
here is the government being able to do
whatever it needs to whether that is um
what we have seen printing money we have
seen Easy Money Easy Money policies by
the central banks we have seen and
that's the interest rates of course and
then we have seen uh all of the sort of
uh tarp type bailouts Public Works
projects essentially taking place we
also have seen simply fudging the
numbers and one of those examples is
what I call or what I've seen the
intergovernmental debt and that's what I
call a straightup lie because if you
just steal from the future if you steal
from Social Security that you are
intending on giving to other people at
some point and you use that to make up
for your shortfalls it doesn't really do
anything to save anybody China holds the
power of the US in their hands because
of these reserves but if it has to make
up uh for the fall in the Yuan it's
going to be in a little bit of a
predicament that's what's happening
right now let's look at this bitcoin's
volatility greatly exceeds that of gold
and currency and you could see these uh
spikes obviously which have occurred
looking at this being um sort of
um what you would say about this is that
yes clearly there are number one less
players number two there is a
significant less percentage and I'm
going to show you that just quickly uh
would note here that gold is sort of
being tracked down here basically a
steady line throughout let's move on to
this where similar uh graph essentially
showing you the percentage wise right at
the very bottom you're seeing
cryptocurrencies okay it's basically
zero okay for the to round it off there
then you look at something like gold and
you can see obviously just for example
in this situation comparing the two
where it's basically nothing versus 49%
so
these these things should show you how
these markets can be moved and
manipulated it's going to be a lot
easier to move cryptocurrencies than it
is to move gold that could mean a
significant Spike upward in Bitcoin at
any moment or of course it could mean
the opposite and then you take a market
like gold which is large in comparison
to bitcoin but then compare that to the
stock markets well then you're seeing
something completely different you know
gold and silver are nothing close to a
bubble despite what um some individuals
would like to maintain because you just
simply look at the total Financial
Assets in the world and it is you know a
fraction of a percent in the total so we
know that we know it's not there's not
enough out there um not enough people
talking about it not enough uh sales on
it not enough anything it is right now
in in practically its infancy on where
it could go now it's all dependent on
the um manipulation that's what's key in
the price of precious metals there is a
lot of um paper basically being sold
back into the market to keep the price
depressed that's very clear and again
just a quickly overview here you're
looking at Gold fairly stable throughout
and this actually this chart goes back
2013 and you can see the price moves in
Bitcoin as you saw the run up was very
very dramatic and it came down uh in a
quite significant fashion but the rise
up has been relatively steady we've seen
the price obviously um make some big
changes in the recent weeks but
ultimately that price was uh quite
steadily rising over the past little
while there so it's it's interesting to
see where it all goes let's keep our
eyes on bitcoin and China and uh know
that this isn't the last we will see if
these that's for sure they will be big
news at least for the um near future
here if you found this video informative
please give me a thumbs up if you want
to see Ben banki and Janet yelling their
little hybrid then you'll have to give
me a thumbs down let me
know and last but not least if you found
this video informative I know you will
find my book The Money GPS even more
informative I've taken this complex
subject of the financial industry and
I've made it very simple by using
diagrams that I've created as well as
charts that basically break it all down
make it simple you can look through the
book If you go over to Amazon they have
a look inside feature that allows you to
flip through the pages of the book and
see if you like it take care